The growth of cloud computing has led to an increase in power cosumption by cloud compute clusters. To reduce power consumption and increase energy efficiency in HDFS clusters, an energy-conserving, hybrid and multi-zoned Hadoop cluster model was described. Cold data which sits idle for a long period of time is transferred to the cold zone, a zone representing low power state. This zone comprises of hard disks in low power mode and low computational power for significant energy cost savings. The overall performance of the cluster would not be affected since most computations would be done in the hot zone where hot data resides. This is achieved because there usually is low utilization in compute servers [5].The usage of SSDs in the hot zone positively impacts workload processing and the SSD's high cost is circumvented by the fact that the cold zone entirely consist of HDDs. Furthermore, algorithms for data transfer among the zones were discussed to consolidate our model. Integration of our proposed zonal layout and algorithms were done in a simulator(mention simulator's paper here) and various tests were run. Simulator results show a significant reduction in power consumption upon the adaption of our model which results in cost savings for keeping the servers running. Thus a hybrid zonal approach for distributing workload in a Hadoop cluster can be used to increase cluster power efficiency.


[5] L. A. Barroso and U. Hölzle. The case for energy-proportional computing. Computer, 40(12), 2007.